Welcome to the very last lecture in our online
course, Introduction to Robotics. Congratulations
to those of you who have made it this far.
I want to do something a bit different in
this particular lecture and talk perhaps less
about technology and algorithms, and software
and so on, and get into some perhaps bigger
picture ideas about robots and where they
fit into society. Why robots are important.
Now, It's been, as I say, quite a journey.
We've talked about the history of robots,
mankind's fascination with building things
in the image of living organisms, in this
case, the famous digesting duck from many
hundreds of years ago. We've talked about
fascination with automata. These lifelike
machines which were able to do reasonably
complex tasks by the standards of the day.
For instance, a figurine of a person with
mechanical innards that was able to do quite
complex drawings. For instance, the drawing
here of a ship. And this is from the 1800's.
And then, around the Second World War technology
started to evolve at a very rapid rate, and
this sort of technology - really the precursor
of robots. Manipulation system allowed scientists
and engineers to manipulate radioactive material
at the distance. And this is really, in my
belief, the sort of precursor technology to
modern industrial robots.
And the first industrial robots were developed
by this company Unimation Inc. which was founded
in 1956, first products went into service
in the very early 1960's. So, this sort of
manufacturing robot, the arm robot, builds
stuff, very, very important to our society.
It's a very old technology now. It's getting
on towards 60 years.
So, we've talked about this evolution of robotic
technology, and we've also talked about what
makes this technology tick. We've talked about
how to build robots. We've talked about how
we represent the pose of objects in the work
space. We've talked about forward kinematics,
inverse kinematics, and Jacobians and joint
control and rigid body dynamics. These are
all the fundamental principles that are really
important if you are building an arm type
robot. These are the things that we've learnt
in this 60 years since this technology was
first conceived. The technology came first
and the theory, the mathematics that we've
learned about, came later.
These robots are really important to modern
industry. Here’s a picture of this kind
of robot, building motor cars and they also
build computers and move packages around in
factories and so on. There's more than a million of these arm type robot and work on planet Earth today.
More recently there is this new class of robots.
We call them service robots or field robots.
And, this is an example of a service robot.
It's a robot that performs a service to a
human being. And this service in this particular
case is cleaning my floor. And these robots
have become phenomenally popular, more than
10 million of these robots sold. These only
have been around for only about a decade.
Manufacturing robot had been around for nearly
60 years. There's only a million of them.
In just 10 over years, we have 10 millions
of these. And the reasons are that these robots
are much cheaper than the manufacturing robots.
The sort of thing that a person can afford,
a person would like to have, because it provides
real value. It performs a greatly useful task
around the house.
So, this is very much the future of robots.
There's going to be robots that work with
us that are low cost and useful. Of course
in the future, there's going to be many other
sorts of robot. Perhaps the next sort of robot
that we are going to encounter en masse, I
think it's going to be the self driving car.
The Google self driving car project has got
a lot of press, and all of the major automotive
companies are working on self driving cars.
And this is a technology some people believe
it might be with this by the year 2020. Time
will tell. But I believe, this is the next robot technology we all encounter on an everyday basis.
So, why robots? What's the big picture reason
for having robots in the world? And I think
if you look at the big problems that our planet
faces right now, come primarily from population
growth. If we look what population growth
is going to do over the coming decades, what
you can see on this slide here is a prediction
of robot population. And by the year 2020,
its believed that there will be a hundred
million robots at work on the planet.
Now, not all of these are going to be the
classic manufacturing robots. Many of them
are going to be for instance robot cars, or
robot vacuum cleaners, perhaps robot gardeners,
robot maids, who knows what. But this is the
sort of new class of robot that's emerging
and the number of these is just going to increase,
perhaps exponentially.
What I want to do now is talk about the big
picture reasons why I believe that we need
robots. This picture illustrates some of the
big problems that are facing society now,
and increasingly in coming decades. The problems
that we face are due to increased human population
on the planet. There are more people in the
planet. It means, we need to provide more
food. This is going to require more transport
requirement. There's going to be more cars
on the road, more people, more things going
from one place to another. And this population
of ours gets older there's going to be a need
for more health care.
As the population get's older, we are going
to have an imbalance in the age ratios. There's
going to be more older people and less younger
people to support them. And this is a problem
that is confronting almost country on the
planet today. And it is very profound problem.
I think we don't really have handle, a good
solution, on what we are going to do about
that. But I believe the robots can play an
important role here.
The other problem that we are facing is climate
change. As the climate of our planet changes,
it's going to have real impacts on where people
are able to live where the amount of water
that would be available, and the amount of
food that we can produce. So, very big picture
problems, very complex and all interrelated.
And I believe that robots can play a very
positive role in ameliorating some of these
problems. And that's what I want to talk about
in this particular lecture.
The other thing that I want to talk about
in this lecture, and I think it's an important
one, is the ethical considerations around
robotics. Now, I'm not an ethicist, I'm a
roboticist. And I’m going to talk to an
ethicist later in this lecture and just try
and unpack what are some of the issues about
ethics that apply to robotics.
We are going to have a discussion, we’re
going to do a bit of an ethics 101, learn
some fundamental principles of ethics, and
then look at issues such as; is it appropriate
for robots to look after elderly people or
young people; what are the ethical issues
with robots driving cars on our roads; what
are the issues around invasion of privacy;
what about robots in jobs. Every time I give
a talk about robots, somebody asks the question,
"Aren’t robots going to take away jobs?"
I don't think it’s that simple.
And in this lecture, we’d like to unpack
some of these issues, talk about them at length.
At least give you something to think about,
argue about. I think it's important that we
have this particular conversation.